---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

## Cleanup

*7-22-2018*

All I did today was clean up my existing code in preparation for adding the
byref slideshow code. When committing, I made the mistake of pulling after I
made my commit. The [merge](https://github.com/OpenDSA/OpenDSA/commit/9be50101b7c7e2ce81cff0efeaf9a7a180ede0cb) seems to be okay though, so hopefully I didn't mess
anything up.

Here's [my commit](https://github.com/OpenDSA/OpenDSA/commit/91f55ed482cd7395f163d57bd679f41b7c74846e).

## Byref Slideshow is Working

*7-22-2018*

After some fiddling, I was able to adapt the existing byval slideshow code to
work with byref examples. From what I've seen it works correctly, but I will do
more rigorous testing before I can confidently say that it's done.

My biggest
obstacle throughout the process of adapting the slideshow code to output a
slideshow for byref was my own code. I wrote a small handful of helper
functions, but I wrote them without considering the big picture. I didn't think
about how any other param passing methods might interact with my functions down
the line, only how byval would. To remedy this, I tweaked my functions in order
to work with pointers in addition to simple values.

Another issue I'm running into is how unstructured my code is. It's a mess. It
works okay, and I can work with it for now. But if I spend too long without
looking at it, it's very hard to come back to it and understand what's going on.
Again, this is a result of not properly planning everything out ahead of time.

Here's [my commit](https://github.com/OpenDSA/OpenDSA/commit/8b6b6fbf7323a2950ea72b62f4dc0715f53099ad).
