---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

## Making a book

*6-1-2018*

Today I dug into OpenDSA to figure out how it works and what files are used when
`make bookname` is executed. There are four main directories
(that I'm aware of):

* config
* AV
* Exercises
* RST

the config folder contains a json file for each book that can be built. A book's
configuration file contains metadata about the book, as well as all the chapters
and what the chapters are called internally. This, in turn, is used to locate
the relevant RST file from the RST directory. The RST file contains chapter
content, as well as references to excercises and other visualizations.

JSAV is used for creating many of the visualizations, or that's the end-goal.
One problem; JSAV's documentation is... not great. For example, the keyValuePair
API documentation is missing entirely. But the keyValuePair API doesn't appear
to be available in the version of JSAV used by OpenDSA anyhow. While I could
choose to use a more recent version, I'm instead going to try to create the
visualization using the current version of JSAV. If I could see a preview of
what it looks like to use the keyValuePair API, I'd know beforehand if it's
something I'd be willing to go through the trouble of trying to use. But since
the documentation contains very few graphics or interactive examples, I'm not
going to bother.

I saw the same basic functionality I was looking for in the data structures
book. For some of the slideshows demonstrating array-based queues, labels are
used in conjunction with single-element arrays to hold the value of a single
primitive variable. I believe this will make the most sense in creating
visualizations of the different parameter passing methods.

## My First Slideshow

*6-2-2018*

I'm finally writing quite a bit. It's still new, so it's a learning process. But
progress is being made. My first slideshow walks through what it looks like to
perform a function call is done by-reference. I discovered that JSAV has a way
to visualize pointers, which came in handy.

One obstacle was JSAV's documentation again. For the `anchor` option, it
says it takes a string in the format `horizontal vertical`. Except sometimes
it's backwards. I couldn't figure out why `center bottom` wasn't working in one
case until I discovered the discrepancy. Then I was able to switch the two and
lo and behold it worked. This could just be due to OpenDSA using an old version
of JSAV, though.

By the end of the day, I finished slideshows demonstrating call-by-value and
call-by-reference. The commit can be found
[here](https://github.com/CorySanin/OpenDSA/commit/051b22d8ed0d3f60c76dc031d1e8447eaed79073).

Next week I hope to finish the slideshows for all the other methods. I feel
comfortable enough with JSAV to do what I want to do, as long as I have an idea
on how I think the content should be displayed. That being said, now that I know
my way around the framework, it shouldn't be too hard to do the rest.
